Reword and add uniformity to Standard Library documentation (#4464)
edgedb/edgedb: docs/stdlib/json.rst

Constructing JSON Values
------------------------

> JSON in EdgeDB is a variation of

Reviewer: "variation of scalar types" doesn't sound right to me - it *is* a scalar type.

    db> select <json>'hello world';
    {'"hello world"'}

> Any value in EdgeDB can be casted to an :eql:type:`json` type as well:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any value in EdgeDB can be casted to a :eql:type:`json` type as well:
```

> Any value in EdgeDB can be casted to an :eql:type:`json` type as well:

Reviewer 2: Yes to @colinhacks's suggestion. Also, I believe "cast" should be the past tense of the verb "cast."

```suggestion
Any value in EdgeDB can be cast to a :eql:type:`json` type as well:
```

Reviewer 2: Just noticed the mention of "casted" below. 😅

    db> select <json>cal::to_local_date(datetime_current(), 'UTC');
    {'"2019-04-02"'}

> Additionally, any :eql:type:`Object` in EdgeDB can be casted as a

Reviewer: "cast" is the correct past tense of "cast"

Author: Good catch, this may be a reoccurence. Thanks for pointing it out!

:eql:type:`json` type. This produces the same JSON value as the
JSON-serialized result of that said object. Furthermore, this result will
be the same as the output of a :eql:stmt:`select expression <select>` in

> *JSOM mode*, including the shape of that type:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*JSON mode*, including the shape of that type:
```

In addition to this, is there a page that would be appropriate to link to for "JSON Mode?" If not, maybe we could describe it here?

Author: I'm not sure what "JSON mode" really describes here, I take it that it involves using `SELECT` onto a `<bool>` cast type

Reviewer 2: Could you provide some context on "JSON mode," @vpetrovykh?

    ...     filter .name = 'std::bool');
    {'{"name": "std::bool", "timestamp": "2019-04-02"}'}

JSON values can also be casted back as a scalar type. Casting JSON is
symmetrical: if a scalar type can be casted back into JSON, only that
particular JSON type can be casted back into that scalar. Some scalar types

> will have specific conditions:

Reviewer 2: This hits my ears funny. I think it's mostly because of "JSON type" since, if I understand, EdgeDB doesn't have a concept of a JSON type. The type is JSON or it's something else. JSON data itself has types, and that's what we're talking about here.

I might fall back on my safety net of "compatible" as a compromise here. Something along these lines:

```
JSON values can also be cast back into scalars. Casting JSON is symmetrical:
if a scalar value can be cast into JSON, a compatible JSON value can be cast
into a scalar of that type. Some scalar types will have specific conditions for
casting:
```

- JSON *strings* can be casted as a :eql:type:`str` type. Casting
  :eql:type:`uuid` and :ref:`date/time types
  <ref_std_datetime>` to JSON results in a JSON
  string representing its original value. This means it is also possible to
  cast a JSON string back to its original type. The value of the string must
  also be properly formatted, otherwise an exception will be raised.
- JSON *numbers* can be casted to any :ref:`numeric type <ref_std_numeric>`.
- JSON *booleans* can be casted as a :eql:type:`bool`.
- Nullified JSON is special as it can be casted as an empty set or ``{}`` of
  :eql:type:`anytype`.
- JSON *arrays* can be casted to any valid EdgeDB array, as long as it's

>   homogeneous and do not contain *null* as a value.

Reviewer 2: Batching these up rather than going line by line with suggestions here.

- "casted" -> "cast"
- standardized around "cast to" rather than "cast as" for consistency
- I removed the emphasis on the type names since they don't indicate a parameter name, and the bullets already show where we are switching JSON "types."
- It's important to retain "those types" in the first bullet while talking about casting back since that is what we're talking about here. It doesn't make sense in this context to generalize.
- I'm not sure that "nullified JSON" is the same as a JSON value `null`. Rather than try to figure that out, I've reverted to what I think is the more common way to refer to that value.
- Stylized `null` as code since it is the value versus the others which are JSON "types".
- "valid EdgeDB array" is encapsulated in the description that follows (homogeneity, lack of `null`, lack of another array), so I let the longer description of EdgeDB array validity stand alone.
- Added lack of null to description of valid array

```rest
- JSON strings can be cast to a :eql:type:`str` type. Casting :eql:type:`uuid` and :ref:`date/time types <ref_std_datetime>` to JSON results in a JSON string representing its original value. This means it is also possible to cast a JSON string back to those types. The value of the UUID or datetime string must be properly formatted to successfully cast from JSON, otherwise EdgeDB will raise an exception.
- JSON numbers can be cast to any :ref:`numeric type <ref_std_numeric>`.
- JSON booleans can be cast to a :eql:type:`bool`.
- JSON ``null`` is unique because it can be cast to an empty set (``{}``) of any type.
- JSON arrays can be cast to an array, as long as it's homogeneous, does not contain ``null`` as an element of the array, and does not contain another array.
```

A *regular* :eql:type:`tuple` is converted into a JSON array when casted
as a :eql:type:`json`, unlike a *named* :eql:type:`tuple` where it is
converted into a JSON *object*. These casts are not reversible, however,
i.e. it is not possible to cast a JSON value directly into a

> :eql:type:`tuple`.

Reviewer 2: - Leading with the named tuple since it may not be clear what a "regular" or "standard" tuple is if we lead with it. By leading with the named tuple, it's clearer that the other variety of tuple is the one that is not named.
- Slightly prefer "standard" to "regular" although I almost went with "unnamed" here. Open to alternatives.
- Tried to drive home the difference in the tuple to JSON casts with slightly different wording.

```rest
A named :eql:type:`tuple` is converted into a JSON object when cast as a
:eql:type:`json` unlike a standard :eql:type:`tuple` which is converted into a
JSON array. Unlike other casts to JSON, tuple casts to JSON are *not* reversible
(i.e., it is not possible to cast a JSON value directly into a 
:eql:type:`tuple`).
```

        db> select <bool>to_json('true');
        {true}

>     A :eql:type:`json` type can also be casted as a :eql:type:`str` type,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    A :eql:type:`json` value can also be cast as a :eql:type:`str` type, but
```

>     but only when recognised as a JSON string:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    only when recognized as a JSON string:
```

We use US English spellings. (I hope to create a style guide for better transparency around these issues.)

    .. code-block:: edgeql-repl

        db> select <str>to_json('"something"');
        {'something'}

>     Casting a string array of JSON (``["a", "b", "c"]``) to a :eql:type:`str`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Casting a JSON array of strings (``["a", "b", "c"]``) to a :eql:type:`str`
```
Even though we do start with a string containing a value that can be cast to JSON as an array, the cast this is referring to is the `json` to `str` cast. That is a cast of a JSON array of strings rather than a string array of JSON.

>     type will result in an error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    will result in an error:
```

Removed "type" since we are not casting to a type but to a value _of_ that type.

    .. code-block:: edgeql-repl

        db> select <str>to_json('["a", "b", "c"]');
        InvalidValueError: expected json string or null; got JSON array

    For dumping or parsing the value of a :eql:type:`json` or :eql:type:`str`

>     type, use the :eql:func`to_json` or :eql:func:`to_str` functions:

Reviewer 2: Split these two functions into their own sentences to avoid all the "or"s.
```rest
    Instead, use the :eql:func:`to_str` function to dump a JSON value to a
    :eql:type:`str` value. Use the :eql:func`to_json` to parse a JSON string to
    a :eql:type:`json`  value.
```

.. eql:operator:: jsonidx: json [ int64 ] -> json

    Indexes an array or string of :eql:type:`json`.

>     This results in :eql:type:`json`. Contents of a JSON array or string can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The function returns the value at the given index as :eql:type:`json`.
```

I don't think the next sentence adds meaning beyond the suggested one-liner, so I'm removing it. Correct me if I'm wrong on that.

>     also accessed through accessing an index from indices: (``[ int64 ]``)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

        db> select to_json('[1, "a", null]')[-1];
        {'null'}

    This may raise an exception if the specified index is not valid for the

>     base JSON value. To access an element that is potentially out of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    base JSON value. To access an index that is potentially out of bounds, use
```

>     boundaries, use :eql:func:`json_get`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    :eql:func:`json_get`.
```

----------

.. eql:operator:: jsonslice: json [ int64 : int64 ] -> json

>     Indexes an array or string of :eql:type:`json`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Produces a JSON value comprising a portion of the existing JSON value.
```

>     This results in :eql:type:`json`. Arrays and strings of JSON can be sliced
>     in the same manner as an :eql:type:`array`, producing a JSON type:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Arrays and strings of JSON can be sliced in the same manner as an
    :eql:type:`array`, producing a :eql:type:`json` value:
```

Just discovered multi-line suggestions! 🎉 

Alright, the suggestion here is intended to reduce some redundancy. With the new one-liner suggestion, we now tell the user it produces a `json` value. We also reiterate that at the end of this paragraph. I suggest dropping the initial sentence which also says that. I also cleaned up the second sentence to clarify a value is produced from the slice, not a type.

.. eql:operator:: jsonplus: json ++ json -> json

>     Concatenates given types of :eql:type:`json` and :eql:type:`Object`
>     into one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Concatenates two :eql:type:`json` arrays, objects, or string values into one.
```

This operator doesn't pertain to our `Object` type but rather to objects represented in a `json` value.

>     This results in a reference of both array's elements conjoined together.
>     If there are mutual keys in the given :eql:type:`json`, the value of the
>     second one will be used instead:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The result is a new :eql:type:`json` value containing the elements of both
    concatenated values. If concatenated objects have identical keys, the value
    of the second one will be used.
    
    Examples:
```

- Result is not a reference (at least, not from the user's perspective) but a new value.
- Clarified some of the language
- Clarified that key overrides apply only to `json` objects
- Added an "Examples" since the examples don't demonstrate only the idea conveyed in the last sentence. Dropping a colon on that suggests they do.

.. eql:operator:: jsonobjdest: json [ str ] -> json

>     Accesses the value of a :eql:type:`json` from its :eql:type:`str` key:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Accesses an element of a :eql:type:`json` object given its key:
```
- Since the "value" of the `json` would be the entire object, I've swapped that word for "element" to clarify this will access only a component of the overall `json` value.
- Clarified this operator applies only to `json` objects

    This results in a :eql:type:`json` type. The fields of any JSON object may

>     also be accessed via ``[]``:

Reviewer 2: @vpetrovykh Can you help me understand the intent of the second sentence here:

> The fields of any JSON object may also be accessed via ``[]``

The "also" suggests we are presenting a new idea, but this sounds like we're just describing the operator again. I think I'm probably misunderstanding.

    :index: json parse loads

>     Returns the value of the inputted :eql:type:`str` from a :eql:type:`json`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Returns a :eql:type:`json` value parsed from the given :eql:type:`str`.
    
    Examples:
```
- Rewrite to clarify what goes in a what comes out
- This is a rare case where the types are important enough for the one-liner since taking in one type and spitting out another is the point of the function we're describing. Good call on that.
- Added "Examples" to get rid of the colon in the one-liner

>     .. code-block:: edgeql-repl

Reviewer 2: I think the examples in the code block below muddy the issue. We're trying to show examples of the `to_json` function, but we're also adding an operator to the end of each line which doesn't really add to the example of `to_json`.

Suggestion:
```rest
    .. code-block:: edgeql-repl
        db> select to_json('[1, "hello", null]');
        {"[1, \"hello\", null]"}
        db> select to_json('{"hello": "world"}')['hello'];
        {"{\"hello\": \"world\"}"}
```

@vpetrovykh As I was testing this example, I noticed the actual output of the REPL is this:
```
{Json("[1, \"hello\", null]")}
```
and
```
{Json("{\"hello\": \"world\"}")}
```

I cleaned it up a bit to better match the output in the other REPL blocks, but I'm wondering if we shouldn't be including everything that the REPL spits out in this block in order to avoid surprising the user if they're trying out our examples in their own REPL. If you agree we should, we may need to look at all JSON REPL examples since they would all be printed as `Json(<json here>)` in the REPL.

Reviewer 2: Fixed the first point, but my second question might still be worth looking it.

    :index: array unpack

    Returns the elements of a JSON array as a set of :eql:type:`json`.

>     Calling this function on anything other than an array of :eql:type:`json`
>     will result in a runtime error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Calling this function on anything other than an :eql:type:`json` array will
    result in a runtime error.
```

Revert this for two reasons:

- This operates on a `json` array, not an array of `json`
- The code example demonstrates that ordering is not guaranteed, which is not the subject of this sentence.

As a result, we also need to move the paragraph that begins "This function should be..." back above the code block. Your rewrite of the paragraph is good with some small tweaks: 

```rest
    This function should be used only if the ordering of elements is not
    deemed important or when the ordering of the set is preserved (such as an
    immediate input to an aggregate function).
```
- Pair "only" with the limiting factor (i.e., "if the ordering of elements is not deemed important")
- "ordering is" instead of "ordering are". Since "ordering" is singular, the verb should be too.
- End with a period

    .. code-block:: edgeql-repl

        db> select json_array_unpack(to_json('[1, "a"]'));
        {'1', '"a"'}

    This function should be only used if the ordering of elements are not
    deemed important, or when the ordering of the set is preserved (such as an
    immediate input to an aggregate function)

> 

Reviewer 2: This should be restored to its previous location. See previous comment for details.

    :index: safe navigation

>     Returns the value of a :eql:type:`json` at the end of the specified path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Returns a property value of a :eql:type:`json` object given its path.
```

> 
>     This will otherwise provide an empty set containing no JSON.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Since this is stated in the next paragraph

    This function provides "safe" navigation of a JSON value. If the
    input path is a valid path for the input JSON object/array, the
    JSON value at the end of that path is returned. If the path cannot

>     be followed for any reason, the empty set is returned:

Reviewer 2: Move the last sentence of this paragraph ("If the path cannot be followed...") to the following paragraph (the one after the code block below). That way, this paragraph talks exclusively about the case where a path can be followed and shows an example of it, while the next paragraph talks exclusively about the case where a path _cannot_ be followed and shows an example of that.

        {}

    Also, a default value can be supplied by using the

>     :eql:op:`coalescence <coalesce>` operator:

Reviewer 2: Rewrite this paragraph as:
```rest
    If you want to supply your own default for the case where the path cannot be
    followed, you can do so using the :eql:op:`coalesce` operator:
```

This way we're clearer about the use case.

        {'{"a": {"b": {"c": 42}}}'}

>     If ``create_if_missing`` is set to ``false``, a new path for the value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If *create_if_missing* is set to ``false``, a new path for the value
```

To be consistent in our parameter presentation.

        ... );
        {'{"a": 10, "b": 20}'}

>     ``empty_treatment`` is an enumerable responsible for the behavior of the
>     function if an empty set is passed to ``new_value``. This will contain one
>     of the following values:

Reviewer 2: I believe the enumeration -> enumerable change changes the meaning, but I'm not sure the original is 100% clear either.

@vpetrovykh Could you do a sanity check on this rewrite?

```suggestion
    *empty_treatment* can be any value from the `JsonEmpty` enumeration. It
    defines the behavior of the function if an empty set is passed as
    *new_value*. `JsonEmpty` contains these values:
```

.. eql:function:: std::json_object_unpack(json: json) -> \
                  set of tuple<str, json>

>     Returns a set of key/value tuples that make up a :eql:type:`json`
>     object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Returns the data in a :eql:type:`json` object as a set of key/value tuples.
```
- Better reflects the data is being transformed before being returned
- Reduces back to one line

    :index: type

>     Returns the type of the outermost :eql:type:`json` value as a
>     :eql:type:`str`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Returns the :eql:type:`str` type of the outermost :eql:type:`json` value.
```

>     Possible return values are: ``'object'``, ``'array'``,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Possible return values are ``'object'``, ``'array'``,
```

>     ``'string'``, ``'number'``, ``'boolean'`` and ``'null'``:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ``'string'``, ``'number'``, ``'boolean'``, or ``'null'``:
```
"or" since return value will be only one of these.
